We're going to talk about the very early origins
of time keeping because some of those are
collectible items as well and things that
you'll find. Obviously, in these cases you
don't have to wind anything or worry about
how you're going to take care of these time
keepers but they're interesting in themselves.
We probably figure that the first guy that
figured out about time keeping it poked a
stick in the sand in Egypt somewhere and saw
that the shadow moved around during the day
and that probably gave him the idea for a
sundial. I have some examples of sundials
here. Some, not always, are as old as you
might expect. This is the oldest one I have,
this is from seventeen ninety, this was an
American made sundial. The issue with sundials,
of course, is the sun has to be shinning,
they don't work on cloudy days or at night,
but they're actually pretty accurate, although,
they have to be set up for what latitude you're
at because the shadows are different, depending
on where you are. This is a little pocket
sundial, an English instrument, which also
has an equation of time chart in there and
everything too. They always have a compass
built into these pocket ones because you need
to orientate yourself correctly in order to
use a sundial and really know what time it
is. This is actually a twentieth-century piece,
made by the Waterbury Clock Company, they
call it their sun watch. They were, of course,
a big clock manufacturer but they thought
this would reach the Boy Scout market and
other people that wanted an inexpensive little
time keeper for their hikes on a sunny day.
There's even a little booklet here that would
tell you all about it. There's other types
of early time keepers too, water clocks,which
would work by a dripping of water, filling
a bucket slowly, some of those reproductions
exist still. There were candle clocks, which
would burn down at a fixed rate and tell you
what time it was. Obviously, these all had
problems which meant that a mechanical time
keeper was probably the better way to go and
actually the way that we have gone.